W-14568574 salesforce updates (#2444)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: salesforce/10.19/modules/ROOT/pages/salesforce-connector-processing-events.adoc

Each event that travels through your flow contains information about the Salesforce data that changed, including how the data changed and when the change occurred.

> Salesforce stores events for 72 hours (or 24 hours for legacy PushTopic and generic events). A subscriber to a topic or channel can retrieve events related to that topic or channel during this retention window, after which the subscriber can retrieve only newer events that have not yet expired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Salesforce stores events for 72 hours (or 24 hours for legacy PushTopic and generic events). A subscriber to a topic or channel can retrieve events related to that topic or channel during this retention window, after which the subscriber can retrieve only newer events that haven't yet expired.
```

Reviewer: We are encouraging folks to use contractions now to make the voice/tone less formal. This matches Salesforce recommendations.

> Salesforce assigns a replay ID to each broadcast event, which you can use to replay stored event messages. For more information, refer to https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_streaming.meta/api_streaming/using_streaming_api_durability.htm[Message Durability] in the Streaming API Developer Guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Salesforce assigns a replay ID to each broadcast event, which you can use to replay stored event messages. For more information, refer to https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_streaming.meta/api_streaming/using_streaming_api_durability.htm[Message Durability^] in the Streaming API Developer Guide.
```

[WARNING]
Avoid using personal user accounts to access Salesforce.

== Working with Platform Events

> Subscribe to platform events with Salesforce Connector. The following example is based on the platform events in the https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/platform_events_basics/platform_events_define_publish[Define and Publish Platform Events] Trailhead. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subscribe to platform events by using Salesforce Connector. The following example is based on the platform events in the https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/platform_events_basics/platform_events_define_publish[Define and Publish Platform Events] Trailhead. 
```

> Subscribe to platform events with Salesforce Connector. The following example is based on the platform events in the https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/platform_events_basics/platform_events_define_publish[Define and Publish Platform Events] Trailhead. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Subscribe to platform events with Salesforce Connector. The following example is based on the platform events in the https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/platform_events_basics/platform_events_define_publish[Define and Publish Platform Events^] Trailhead. 
```

> To receive platform events from Salesforce with Salesforce Connector: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To receive platform events from Salesforce by using Salesforce Connector: 
```

. Log in to Salesforce and create a Salesforce platform event, such as `Cloud_News__e`.
. Go to Anypoint Studio and create a Mule app.
. Drag the *Subscribe Channel Listener* source to the canvas and in the *Streaming Channel* field, specify `/event/Cloud_News__e`.
. Drag a *Logger* component to the canvas to show the payload so you can see the received message on the console, for example:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="SampleFlow" doc:id="d25ff96a-aec9-45ee-89f2-74080fb83b45" >
  <salesforce:subscribe-channel doc:name="Subscribe channel" doc:id="cb21f452-9280-41f8-ba52-93c49a03ea38" config-ref="Salesforce_Config" 
   streamingChannel="/event/Cloud_News__e"/>
  <logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" doc:id="5ebd77bf-87de-4f55-ab81-2af3abbe2bee" message="#[payload]"/>
</flow>
----

> . Publish a platform event message to `Cloud_News__e`. You can use Apex code, process, Salesforce Flow, or Salesforce APIs. For example, you can send a POST request:

Reviewer: process?

> . Publish a platform event message to `Cloud_News__e`. You can use Apex code, process, Salesforce Flow, or Salesforce APIs. For example, you can send a POST request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Publish a platform event message to `Cloud_News__e`. You can use Apex code, process, Salesforce Flow, or Salesforce APIs. For example, you can send a POST request as follows:
```

+
[source,text,linenums]
----
{
   "Location__c" : "Mountain City",
   "Urgent__c" : true,
   "News_Content__c" : "Lake Road is closed due to mudslides."
}
----
+
The console appears as follows:
+
[source,console]
----
INFO  2019-10-26 16:11:50,483 [[MuleRuntime].cpuLight.05: [test].SampleFlow.CPU_LITE @2b42bef0] 
[event: e00096e0-f7bf-11e9-b534-8c85907d741e] org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: 
{data={schema=eGRz2Sfoy-YO9mVvH8J4fg, 
payload=
{News_Content__c=Lake Road is closed due to mudslides.,
 CreatedById=0050o00000U3Q8vAAF,
 CreatedDate=2019-10-26T07:12:01.026Z,
 Location__c=Mountain City, Urgent__c=true},
 event={replayId=49544589}},
 channel=/event/Cloud_News__e}
----

> == Working with Change Data Capture Events

Reviewer: Why is this section in italics?

Author: Github bug

> Subscribe to change data capture events, such as Salesforce object creations, updates, or deletions, with Salesforce Connector. This example uses the *Replay Channel Listener* source, which enables you to replay events, but you can use the *Subscribe Channel Listener* source instead if you don't want to replay any events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subscribe to change data capture events, such as Salesforce object creations, updates, or deletions, by using Salesforce Connector. This example uses the *Replay Channel Listener* source, which enables you to replay events. You can use the *Subscribe Channel Listener* source instead if you don't want to replay any events.
```

. Log in to Salesforce.
. Go to *Setup > Integrations > Change Data Capture* and select a Salesforce object, such as Account.
. Go to Anypoint Studio and create a Mule app.

> . Drag the *Replay Channel Listener* source to the canvas and in the *Streaming Channel* field, specify `/data/AccountChangeEvent`. For a complete list of channel names, refer to https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.change_data_capture.meta/change_data_capture/cdc_subscribe_channels.htm[Subscription Channels]. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Drag the *Replay Channel Listener* source to the canvas and in the *Streaming Channel* field, specify `/data/AccountChangeEvent`. For a complete list of channel names, refer to https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.change_data_capture.meta/change_data_capture/cdc_subscribe_channels.htm[Subscription Channels^]. 
```

> . Drag the *Replay Channel Listener* source to the canvas and in the *Streaming Channel* field, specify `/data/AccountChangeEvent`. For a complete list of channel names, refer to https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.change_data_capture.meta/change_data_capture/cdc_subscribe_channels.htm[Subscription Channels]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag the *Replay Channel Listener* source to the canvas and in the *Streaming Channel* field, specify `/data/AccountChangeEvent`. For a list of channel names, refer to https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.change_data_capture.meta/change_data_capture/cdc_subscribe_channels.htm[Subscription Channels]. 
```

. Drag a *Logger* component to the canvas to show the payload so you can see the received message on the console, for example:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="ytaoka-salesforce-replaychannelFlow" doc:id="01d0fd5c-f777-4eda-a167-a931ef240f65" >
		<salesforce:replay-channel streamingChannel="/data/AccountChangeEvent" replayOption="ONLY_NEW" doc:name="Replay channel" doc:id="c036e7c5-86ed-4904-ae34-185ea42319e9" config-ref="Salesforce_Config" replayId="-1" autoReplay="true"/>
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" doc:id="978f0aad-ab09-4910-bc54-a7c3dcc5935c" message="#[payload]"/>
</flow>
----

> . Log in to Salesforce and update any Account record, for example, update the name of the Account to `TestName2`. The console appears as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in to Salesforce and update any Account record; for example, update the name of the account to `TestName2`. The console appears as follows:
```

+
[source,console]
----
INFO  2019-11-12 08:17:27,496 [[MuleRuntime].cpuLight.05: [sample].sampleFlow.CPU_LITE @14741f50] [event: xxx] 
org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: {data={schema=CEjkFTwpfASSecY9UGNoOg, 
payload={LastModifiedDate=2019-11-11T23:17:30.000Z, ChangeEventHeader={commitNumber=10743571519745, commitUser=0050o00000XTesxAAD, 
sequenceNumber=1, entityName=Account, changeType=UPDATE, 
changedFields=[Ljava.lang.Object;@4f738b9d, changeOrigin=com/salesforce/api/soap/47.0;client=SfdcInternalAPI/, 
transactionKey=0002463d-1e88-1d80-5638-15c821f06b79, commitTimestamp=1573514251000, recordIds=[Ljava.lang.Object;@6e812151}, 
Name=TestName2}, 
event={replayId=1065378}}, channel=/data/AccountChangeEvent}
----

== Working with PushTopic Events (Legacy)

Work with PushTopic events by creating a PushTopic, subscribing to a PushTopic, and replaying PushTopic messages.

> NOTE: PushTopic events is a legacy product. Salesforce no longer enhances PushTopic events with new features and provides limited support for this product. Instead of PushTopic events, you can use Change Data Capture events. To learn more about Change Data Capture events, refer to the https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.246.0.change_data_capture.meta/change_data_capture/cdc_intro.htm[Change Data Capture Developer Guide] and the https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/change-data-capture[Change Data Capture Basics] Trailhead module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
PushTopic events is a legacy product. Salesforce no longer enhances PushTopic events with new features and provides limited support for this product. Instead of PushTopic events, use Change Data Capture events. To learn more about Change Data Capture events, refer to the https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.246.0.change_data_capture.meta/change_data_capture/cdc_intro.htm[Change Data Capture Developer Guide^] and the https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/change-data-capture[Change Data Capture Basics^] Trailhead module.
====
```

> NOTE: PushTopic events is a legacy product. Salesforce no longer enhances PushTopic events with new features and provides limited support for this product. Instead of PushTopic events, you can use Change Data Capture events. To learn more about Change Data Capture events, refer to the https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.246.0.change_data_capture.meta/change_data_capture/cdc_intro.htm[Change Data Capture Developer Guide] and the https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/change-data-capture[Change Data Capture Basics] Trailhead module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: PushTopic events is a legacy product. Salesforce no longer enhances PushTopic events with new features and provides limited support for this product. Instead of PushTopic events, use Change Data Capture events, as described in the https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.246.0.change_data_capture.meta/change_data_capture/cdc_intro.htm[Change Data Capture Developer Guide] and the https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/change-data-capture[Change Data Capture Basics] Trailhead module.
```

[[createtopic]]
=== Creating a PushTopic to Receive Data from Salesforce

> When you create a topic, the connector creates a `PushTopic`, which is a special object in Salesforce that binds a name (in this case, the topic's name) and a Salesforce Object Query Language (SOQL) query together. After creating a PushTopic, you can subscribe to it by its name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a topic, the connector creates a `PushTopic`, which is a special object in Salesforce that binds a name (in this case, the topic's name) and a Salesforce Object Query Language (SOQL) query together. After creating a PushTopic, you can subscribe to it by name.
```

----

[[topicsub]]
=== Subscribing to a PushTopic

> To subscribe to a PushTopic, add either the *Subscribe topic listener* (`subscribe-topic-listener`) or the *Replay topic listener* (`replay-topic-listener`) as a source for your flow. The source acts as an inbound endpoint. Every time the subscription receives an event, the source executes the rest of the flow in your Mule app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To subscribe to a PushTopic, add either the *Subscribe topic listener* (`subscribe-topic-listener`) or the *Replay topic listener* (`replay-topic-listener`) as a source for your flow. The source acts as an inbound endpoint. Each time the subscription receives an event, the source executes the rest of the flow in your Mule app.
```

</flow>
----

You can subscribe to a PushTopic that was not previously published in Salesforce. However, after the PushTopic is published, you won't receive notifications for that PushTopic unless you resubscribe to it.

[[topicrep]]
=== Replaying Messages from a PushTopic

A subscriber can specify which events to receive. By default, a subscriber receives only the events that occur after subscribing. Events outside of the retention period are discarded.

The *Replay topic listener* source provides these options:

* `ALL`
+
Subscriber receives all events, including past events that are within the retention period and new events that are sent after the client subscribes.
* `ONLY_NEW`
+
Subscriber receives new events that are sent after the client subscribes.
* `FROM_REPLAY_ID`
+
Subscriber receives all events after the specified event `replayId`.
* `FROM_LAST_REPLAY_ID`
+

> Subscriber uses the highest replay ID stored in the object store regardless of whether it is processed successfully or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subscriber uses the highest replay ID stored in the object store regardless of whether it's processed successfully or not.
```

</flow>
----

== Working with Generic Events (Legacy)

Work with generic events by creating a streaming channel, subscribing to a streaming channel, replaying generic events, and pushing events to a streaming channel.

> NOTE: Generic Events is a legacy product. Salesforce no longer enhances Generic Events with new features and provides limited support for this product. Instead of Generic Events, you can use Platform Events. To learn more about Platform Events, refer to the https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.246.0.platform_events.meta/platform_events/platform_events_intro.htm[Platform Events Developer Guide] and the https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/platform_events_basics[Platform Events Basics] Trailhead module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[NOTE] 
====
Generic Events is a legacy product. Salesforce no longer enhances Generic Events with new features and provides limited support for this product. Instead of Generic Events, use Platform Events. To learn more about Platform Events, refer to the https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.246.0.platform_events.meta/platform_events/platform_events_intro.htm[Platform Events Developer Guide^] and the https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/platform_events_basics[Platform Events Basics^] Trailhead module.
====
```

> NOTE: Generic Events is a legacy product. Salesforce no longer enhances Generic Events with new features and provides limited support for this product. Instead of Generic Events, you can use Platform Events. To learn more about Platform Events, refer to the https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.246.0.platform_events.meta/platform_events/platform_events_intro.htm[Platform Events Developer Guide] and the https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/platform_events_basics[Platform Events Basics] Trailhead module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Generic Events is a legacy product. Salesforce no longer enhances Generic Events with new features and provides limited support for this product. Instead of Generic Events, you can use Platform Events, as described in the https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.246.0.platform_events.meta/platform_events/platform_events_intro.htm[Platform Events Developer Guide] and the https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/platform_events_basics[Platform Events Basics] Trailhead module.
```

In this scenario, the connector streams the events one-by-one into the Mule app. If the app takes too long to process a message, Streaming API might instruct the connector to reconnect. If this happens, Streaming API drops all of the unprocessed messages. You can avoid this situation by implementing a reliability pattern, as described in xref:mule-runtime::reliability-patterns.adoc[Reliability Patterns].

[[customevents]]
=== Obtaining Generic Event Notifications

Salesforce Connector enables you to obtain custom event notifications, which apply to general events that are not tied to Salesforce data changes.

To obtain generic event notifications:

. Use the *Publish streaming channel* operation to create a streaming channel.
+
`StreamingChannel` is a special Salesforce object that represents a channel used to notify listeners of generic Streaming API events.
+
You can also create a streaming channel through Salesforce.
+
. Use the *Subscribe channel listener* operation to subscribe to the channel.
+
Salesforce Connector converts the custom events in your streaming channel to Mule events.

[[pushevents]]
=== Pushing Generic Events to a Streaming Channel

> Salesforce enables you to push custom events to a specific streaming channel through the REST API. To do this, use this connector.

Reviewer: Did you mean "generic events" instead of "custom events" to match the heading?

Author: nope meant as custom
